.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Florian Wagner <florian@wagner-flo.net>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\" this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\" notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\" documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\" EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd July 15 2012
.Dt TGREYLIST 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm tgreylist
.Nd greylisting for the Postfix access policy protocol using the trival
database system (tdb) as backend
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar -D database
.Op Ar -d delay
.Op Ar -t timeout
.Op Ar -l lifetime
.Op Ar -4 v4mask
.Op Ar -6 v6mask
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility implements greylisting using the Postfix access policy protocol
for communication with said MTA as well as the trivial database system
(tdb) as back-end for storing triplets.
.Pp
After being started it parses its commandline options and if successful
enters a loop until a terminating signal is recieved:
.Bl -enum
.It
Read from standard input and parse it as a request according to the
Postfix access policy protocol specifications. Any invalid input is
logged and ignored. If the request as a whole is invalid also log
this, do not reply to it and start parsing again.
.It
Build a unique triplet using the
.Em sender
and
.Em recipient
as well as either the
.Em client_name
or
.Em client_address
attributes. Precedence goes to the
.Em client_name ,
which is stripped of its domain name using a heuristic. If
.Em client_name
is not available then
.Em client_address
is used instead.
.It
Try to open a connection to the backend database if it is not already
open. Failure to do so will result in the mail being allowed through
to not impact delivery.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
If
.Nm
is unable to successfully parse the commandline options it will exit
with code 1. Otherwise it will run untill external termination.
.
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Florian Wagner Aq florian@wagner-flo.net .
